---
layout: post
title: CV
date: 2023-04-12 13:32:20 +0300
description: CV
img: icons/document.svg
fig-caption: test caption # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [CV]
---



**Name:** Piyush T       
**Email:** hi@piyush.org      
**Phone:** +1-4085799763     
**Location:** San Francisco, CA


# Summary
A highly skilled and experienced software engineer with over 10 years of experience in the Computer Science and Engineering industry. Proficient in cloud, FinTech, and AI technologies, with a strong background in scaling infrastructure and creating tools and services. A Microsoft certified programmer, Google certified expert, and ITIL V3.0 certified IT professional. Passionate about creating innovative solutions that solve complex problems.

# Education
- Master of Science in Information Systems, GPA 3.7, May 2016, Texas A&M University, College Station, USA
- Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication, GPA 3.4, June 2010, National Institute of Technology, Raipur, INDIA (Ranked 60th among 2000+ engineering colleges in India)

# Key Achievements
- Peer reviewer for Journal of Internet medical research journal which is a leading medical informatics research journal.
- Winner of National Achiever Award in Computing 2023
- Served as a judge for prestigious awards such as the Golden Bridge Awards (SVSU), The American Business Awards, and the SIA Codie awards.
- Worked on the platform that powers New York State's COVID-19 contact tracing program, which was also praised by ex-president Barack Obama.
- Acted as a Tech design expo judge for Michigan Technical University, USA, and Texas A&M University, USA.
- Created software products to generate publication-quality graphics for medical research papers of America's top veterinary medical school.
- Co-created an email platform that sends out over 50 billion emails per month and is used by major companies such as Nike, eBay, Dell, and Red Cross.

# Experience

**Software Engineer, Square**  
Aug 2022 – Present

- Working with the Help Experience team to create tools and services that positively affect millions of people.

**Software Engineer, Twilio Sendgrid**  
July 2019 – Aug 2022

- Worked on scaling the infrastructure of the world's largest cloud-based email delivery platform.
- Worked with cloud technologies at a high scale (50 Billion+ emails per month) environment.
- Worked with golang, python, aws and NoSQL.

**Software Engineer, Factset Research Systems**  
July 2016 – July 2019

- Coding for new releases, fixes, and enhancements within a structured environment (including test-driven development and agile approaches) to financial products used globally.
- Worked with Python, MySQL, and data structures.

**Software Programmer, Texas A&M University**  
Sept 2014 – May 2016

- Created web tools to generate publication-quality graphics for medical research papers of America's top veterinary medical school.
- Worked with Java, HTML, Python, and other web technologies.

**Software Engineer, NReach**  
Aug 2012 – May 2014

- Transformed the National Entrepreneurial Network (NEN) system into an efficient and consumer-friendly module.
- Developed using SDLC (Agile methodology) and helped organize the E-week event with over 35,000 participants.

**Application Engineer, CTS**  
July 2010 – Aug 2012

- Saved $18,000 worth of man-hours by creating scripts to automate data insertion for a client, one of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies.

# Technical Skills

- API development
- Microservices
- System Design
- High Scale Computing
- Software Engineering
- Data Structures
- Java
- Python
- Unix

# Certifications

- Microsoft Certified Programmer: Programming in HTML5 with JavaScript and CSS3: License#SR8976659
- CSCE-629(Algorithms, Data Structures), Dept. of Computer Science & Engineering, Texas A&M University
- ISYS-601(Object Oriented Business Programming), Mays Business School, Texas A&M University

# Personal Projects

- TabManager Chrome extension (2015): Free chrome extension which provides better tab management to Google Chrome power users
- Project Demo: [http://www.piyushtripathi.com](http://www.piyushtripathi.com)
- GainGuy: [www.gainguy.com](www.gainguy.com) Free and popular nutrition app with more than 10,000 users

